# Component Qualification of ICA by Reinforcement Learning Function Approximation
Master Thesis Source Code
## Abstract
Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is a powerful mechanism to detect statis-
tically independent components (signals) in data sets. In contrast to other feature
extraction techniques ICA does not focus on the strongest - possibly correlated -
elements and so yields completely different information.
A major drawback of ICA is its incapability to tell the number and relevance
of the embedded signals, so that it is left to the discretion of the user to 1) define
in advance the number of signals and 2) later interpret their power.

If repeatable and reasonable inference from ICA signals is possible an auto-
mated agent must be able to generate measurable results using them. Reinforce-
ment Learning (RL) provides strong and proven methods for an autonomous agent
to learn a behavioural policy to achieve a defined goal. RL techniques try to model
human learning and can therefore be used to simulate and automate human usage
of ICA for decision making.

This thesis applies RL techniques to qualify the signals detected by ICA:
1) Multiple sets of artificial signals are generated and linearly mixed respectively.
2) ICA is applied for various numbers of signals.
3) A RL agent learns weights to apply to those ICA signals to reach a defined
goal.

It is shown statistically that the agent’s learning results per number of ICA
signals correlate with the number of underlying artificial signals.
This process therefore describes an algorithmic method to assess the selected
number of signals that does not rely on externally provided prior knowledge and
so may reduce the risk of potentially biased interpretation.

## Project Execution and Artefacts
### Execution Steps
1. Change to the directory, where project sources reside
2. all.sh ssteps[23456]/
means: run agent for BaseSignals 2,3,4,5,6 data will be dumped regularly, so
evaluation can be evaluated during operation,
be patient :-)
3. eval.sh ssteps[23456]/
means: run the evaluation of the generated data - may be called anytime,
will generate graphs, if data is available
### Generated Artefacts
* ssteps${numBase}/finDemo.env ${hostname} ica ${numSigs}.rdata
data generated by agent during execution
dumped regularly, incrementing
2: two BaseSignals, 234. . . number of ICA signals
* ssteps${numBase}/finDemo.env ${hostname} ica ${numSigs} Res.rdata
the evaluation data generated by eval.sh
data augmented and preprocessed for graph generation
* rdata ssteps${numBase}.tar
tar of the generated data
* png ssteps${numBase}.tar
tar of the generated graphs
